important in all of these sales
conversations is relentlessly
quantifying value I've never seen from
customers such a voracious appetite to
measure Roi from a product right they
want to know from day one what's
happening in the products and what
benefits they're getting from it and
this is hard to do well right you need
the data emitting from your products you
need the context from your customer to
understand what they really care about
which of course is different for every
single customer and then you need to
package that into a narrative that makes
sense please welcome Elizabeth pemal cro
at GitHub oh
SAS this is my first time here I'm
thrilled to be here and I've had
conversations with a few of you I hope I
get to meet more of you I'm Elizabeth
pemal I am the chief Revenue officer at
GitHub if GitHub is new to you GitHub is
where software development happen we
have a 100 million users on the platform
90% of the Fortune 100 it's where
developers create and build and secure
and scale it is the home for software
developers and GitHub is also my home
I've been in GitHub nearly a decade I
joined as an individual contributor I
was the first seller focused on our
public sector markets in the United
States and since those early days with
200ish employees to today we have
thousands to now over $2 billion in
Revenue it's been an incredible journey
as cro just for context my
responsibilities include all of our
customer experience teams so sales our
technical sales teams post sales
functions like supports customer success
Partners expert services and our go to
market with Microsoft since we were
acquired in
2018 and we have been on a journey we've
been on a journey with
co-pilot co-pilot started really just
with our interest to help developers be
more productive to be happier to stay in
their Flow State longer as we went
through this journey we realized there's
actually a product here and so we
brought the first iteration co-pilot for
individuals to Market we then brought
co-pilot for business to Market that was
early
2023 step ahead to today we have
77,000 organizations using GitHub
co-pilot and almost 2 million
users in the last fiscal year our fiscal
year ends in June our AI products were
40% of our Revenue growth During the
period pretty remarkable so we're
talking I think pretty real scale here
and we learned a heck of a lot along the
way I'm going to share some of those
perspectives with you and I'm hopeful
they may be
useful in that video I mentioned being
customer zero this was a very important
component of our journey as I mentioned
we set out first and foremost to build a
product we wanted to use internally
co-pilot at its very nature is code
completion so our developers start
typing code and the co-pilot then offers
the rest of that coding suggestion based
on their prompt and as I mentioned first
and foremost our individual developers
were using it they were loving it we
thought there's a skew here this is its
own
product we brought that to Market and as
we used it more we realized we're going
to need user Administration features
better onboarding capabilities SSO
integration and the like and so that
wrapper became what is now the skew we
call co-pilot for business and we
continued doggedly poking at this
problem of where else can co-pilot help
developers be more creative and more
satisfied and so we integrated co-pilot
then across the command line across our
pull request features across issues and
documentation and that became the basis
for co-pilot
Enterprise so what I think we did well
here was stay very focused on the
problems we were trying to solve and
that discipline is incredibly important
as we think about scaling AI tools
because a of the number of use cases you
could go tackle and B the ubiquity of AI
now solving all the problems we stayed
really focused on the problems we wanted
to solve and we didn't get distracted
and that distraction is also ubiquitous
right we have new products coming to
Market we have new companies being born
and funded we have new models being
deployed constantly we've stayed focused
on what we want to solve
Anda good great good job us we get this
product out in the market but with
developer Tools in particular you ship
something to the world and you
immediately hear about all the things
you didn't get right there are so many
software development languages and idees
and Technology stacks and flows that the
feedback came pouring in right and with
the volume of feedback and how Dynamic
this space is AI in general we knew we
needed a much stronger feedback listen
mechanism in place between our customers
between our Revenue team between
products and engineering and that
listening mechanism is somewhere we had
to invest a lot really quickly to make
sure we could capitalize on the
opportunity in front of us and so we set
out to rearchitecturing
and then we've had to challenge
ourselves to be very disciplined with
that feedback in prioritization and
communication and so to touch on the
first that the process component
historically the burden of customer
feedback fell on our Solutions engineers
and our customer success Architects
bless them we would send them this
incredibly long issue template and say
we're going to need a you know brief 47
Fields here on what the customer told
you and sure the feedback we got was
great but I think we were capturing
about 30% % of it right because it was
those dear hearted teammates who took
the time to do it we blew that apart and
we created a simple chat SL command SL
customer feedback now it is seamless and
in their natural flow to add feedback
right where they're working day in day
out which lands in GitHub issues then
triaged into a central project board and
now weekly we can tag it we can
aggregate it we can add value to it and
we can make decisions based on what
we're hearing so we started slow we got
this right with those se's and csas who
were on the journey with us and then we
started to look at that front door like
I mentioned where else do we have
feedback opportunities across the
business our support team naturally they
are on the front lines with our
customers every day and had lists upon
lists of things that they wanted to see
product prioritize we started to
incorporate that into the process we
then looked at our customer Advisory
Board feedback our executive briefings
Etc couple of benefits of our investment
here a getting decisions made and those
decisions communicated back to our
customers B we now are seeing the
percentage of those issues that we work
and resolve quarter over quarter
steadily ticking up so we know it's
working and see for the leaders in the
crowd our semester planning process
which are these Sprints where we decide
what we're going to work on used to be
this weeks long thing of passing
documents around lots of like really
strongly held opinion Loosely backed by
data now we pull up our project list and
at our last offsite it took about two
hours to go through the list and say
what are we doing what are we not doing
and why and so that provides tremendous
velocity and also gives us a lot of time
back to focus on more important
things and so when we think about this
in action for co-pilot for business an
interesting scenario arose where we put
this into practice when we took co-pilot
for business to Market we knew of course
this was going to be valuable for GitHub
Enterprise users so folks who actually
their code stored on GitHub and from a
go to market perspective it was pretty
straightforward this is a cross cell
we're going to take this skew to our
existing customers we have commercials
with them already off we go and so we're
out running in the market talking to
customers and what surprised us a bit
was the demand from prospects he said we
want co-pilot he said you're you're not
using GitHub and they said but we still
want co-pilot like oh okay tell us more
and so we started to aggregate that
feedback and thought huh this could be
an interesting New Direction and so
through that feedback process we're able
to take in different Tam analysis and
customer segments and the like and we
made the decision to move forward and
prioritize a new direction for the
products and for me this process also
created a bit of a mental model on how
we're thinking about AI products that
may be applicable in other cases first
and foremost as we tinkered with what
became co-pilot we had to make a
decision is this code completion
functionality a capability that's part
of our native platform
feature okay is it something now that we
want to independently skew or make part
of the platform skew that already exists
okay we want to natively we want to take
that as its own skew and now that it's
its own skew is it a skew design just
for users of our for productor platform
or is this a skew that's going to open
up new and adjacent markets okay that's
the decision we made and then how do we
price all of that so that the pricing of
the skus you end up with at the bottom
of that decision tree makes sense
relative to your BAS product pricing so
as I said the solution was we ended up
shipping uh co-pilot for business for
non- GitHub Enterprise users it's been
remarkably successful commercially it's
also opened up relationships to to net
new customers for us that we certainly
hope we can move to the GitHub platform
over
time another place we saw this in
practice this this feedback loop working
very well was related to adoption
metrics customers crave metrics about
how their teams are using all AI
products get co-pilot included and once
we shipped our first version of our API
again flooding feedback that we didn't
include quite the right things they
needed a little more here wanted us to
add this and that we had to have a
feedback loop in place in order to
prioritize that and make sure we were
going to ship the next best things the
value here was also in US deciding what
we weren't going to ship and that's
where we've really leaned into to
Partners to fill the gaps in some of our
product capabilities make room for them
in this co-pilot ecosystem through
things like co-pilot
extensions so we've learned a lot from
our customers as we've gone on this
co-pilot World
Tour what was interesting to me as well
was how much teaching we had to do and
think like 18 20 months ago our
customers were on the very very early
days of their AI Journeys and so they
wanted to know about privacy and
security and legal and we spent a lot of
time educating them getting back to
basics clearing up misperceptions
pushing back on misunderstandings and I
would say a learning for me was that
this was the most uncomfortable I think
I have been consistently in sales Cycles
because we had to really lean back on
customers and change their thinking
about what it meant to adopt an AI
product so don't underestimate the time
that's going to that's going to require
and the the discomfort it's going to
cause but I'd say we came out stronger
on the back end of that because we've
only solidified our trusted relationship
status with these
customers okay so now you have a a good
strong product in Market you're
listening to your customers your
customer
zero not only did we have to learn and
listen and just on the product front we
had to do this on the goto Market front
as well
and part of this was because there was
absolutely no Playbook we could pull off
the shelf 18 months ago and say this is
absolutely best way to take an AI
product to Market didn't exist there was
not sales leaders or sales teams who had
done this before so build the Playbook
as we go and assumption we had for
example out at the gate was that Junior
developers are going to love co-pilot
companies are going to want it to give
it to all of their early and profession
Talent it will make them more productive
more quickly lo and behold we start
talking to customers we realized
actually there was far more excitement
about the productivity it was giving
back to senior developers who were able
to craft more sophisticated prompting
and focus on even tougher problems for
the company when they weren't caught up
in root administrative tasks so we had
to go back to our pmm Playbook and pull
it apart a little bit and start over
with what we thought was going to be
that initial value proposition we were
able to do this well because a core
ethos in our company is being iterative
and being a little bit uncomfortable we
have two Core Company principles of
seven ship to learn and embrace a growth
mindset and these are just things we
talk about in all hands and put on
slides we actually have emojis in chat
and when we see this Behavior we
celebrate it we talk about this actively
in our reflection conversations when
we're considering performance and
impact the other concept that we've
really embraced in revenue is hiring for
low ego and high EQ and I've heard this
concept A couple of times today from
other speakers we want to look for
people who have been through something
who have stuck with it when the quarter
or the year has been lean they've gone
through a messy acquisition they came
out the other side they have a story to
tell and as a result of this we have a
team who really leans into change and is
excited to embrace the things that are
messy the other way we embody this is
that we run six-month compensation plans
for those unv variable plans so
six-month plans every six months you get
a new exhibit so we're in constant
planning mode this takes a lot of work
from the sales leadership and our
finance team but a couple of things it
means we can really quickly react to
what's happening in the market and we
can make adjustments as we go and we can
Tinker we can try things for 6 months
and see what works now six-month comp
plans a lot of reps are going to say I
don't want you to change my plan after
six months sure there are times when the
plan benefits the company more often
than not though we found that the
six-month planning process benefits our
hubbers because we have something
unexpected happen in the products we
decide to make a change to segmentation
or alignment or we have economic
situation that we didn't expect and so
it sends a pretty strong signal to
candidates who are interested to join us
when we let them know about this
six-month
plan in terms of other pivots or
learnings in the goto Market Journey
we've had to adjust to new sales stages
and to new buyer personas so I mentioned
before the proliferation of
conversations related to legal and
privacy and models
that took much longer in all of these
sales stages than we had ever
experienced
before so we had to take a new approach
right our Solutions Engineers our csas
our selling teams our Sephora teams were
answering so many questions that they
could not keep up with the demands and
so our legal team to their credit took
the matter into their own hands and went
on a road show globally they hosted
roundtables in major cities around the
worlds where they invited the GCS of our
customers and said let's have a Frank
conversation about AI what it isn't what
you shouldn't be concerned about and
what you probably do need to be
concerned about and thinking about they
PE the road out ahead of us and became
really an extension of our sales
organization that this was great two
years ago but of course didn't scale so
we had to translate those materials to
selfs serve and we did that via this
co-pilot trust Center we put all of that
material in a place that can be accessed
by anyone in the company who might need
it whether it's a one pager or uh simple
video explaining how the product
works in addition to these new kind of
major steps in our sales cycle we're
seeing now as our customers get more up
to speed with AI and more comfortable
there's some new buyer personas emerging
we've had some customers name AI
transformation officers or chief AI
officers that will be one of our buyer
personas in the years to come and I
think it will be very interesting for us
to think about how that role intersects
with whatever our kind of core
traditional buyer Persona was where the
roles responsibilities and budget lie
and what's important so that's something
I'm definitely keeping an eye
on important in all of these sales
conversations is relentlessly
quantifying value I've never seen from
customers such a voracious appetite to
measure Roi from a product right they
want to know from day one what's
happening in the products and what
benefits they're getting from it and
this is hard to do well right you need
the data emitting from your products you
need the context from your customer to
understand what they really care about
which of course is different for every
single customer and then you need to
package that into a narrative that makes
sense um and so a learning for us in
this process was a making sure we were
getting that right data emission and
then B making sure we were investing in
things like value engineering external
references case
studies internal metrics from our use
cases or from Microsoft's use cases so
don't underestimate the investment you
need to make here in order to be really
compelling to your
customers one more
learning when we first were bringing
co-pilot to business to our Enterprise
customers there was also voracious
appetite for Pilots everybody wants to
Tinker they want to try it for their use
case for their team for 10 developers
that's very exciting it is an enormously
taxing on your organization especially
when you're small we very quickly had
far more demand than we could handle
especially from companies the size of
Accenture They Can Eat You Alive with a
POC it could take a year and so we had
to get pretty opinionated about what we
felt was a PC worth supporting and how
we were going to measure the impact and
so with Accenture they started with 20
developers internally and they said this
is pretty good like we want to do
something a little more formal they set
up a trial with four 50 developers using
co-pilot actively for a period of time
and tested that against a control group
of another 200 developers and at the end
not only yay did they buy co-pilot and
roll it out to thousands of people but
they produced the study which is also
very great a nice selling tool to have
on hand but the bigger lesson there is
we had to get pretty disciplined about
saying no or pushing customers to a
package sort of POV perspective the same
is true postale for adoption customers
say well let the developers use it who
want to oh let's get everybody going
here so we had to be really prescriptive
about that adoption journey and our CS
team did a fantastic job creating the
co-pilot adoption framework and open
sourcing it so every customer has access
to
it okay so now we have our product in
markets we're getting feedback we're
learning we're iterating on our go to
market
strategy if you're lucky this massive
business you're building is now sh
showing signs of strain in certain areas
because of the incredible growth and
that certainly happened to us the next
Horizon is
scaling the single greatest asset you
have are the hours of the experts on
your teams Solutions engineering sales
support CS we had to figure out how to
make our Sellers as productive as
possible in a time when they couldn't
possibly keep up with the demands that
meant putting as much as possible into
selfservice channnels it me it meant
enabling a partner Network to help
us recording things and then driving to
one to many so what used to be of a
Spoke let's have a call and do a demo
situation quickly turned to you are
welcome to join the call with the rest
of Belgium next Friday at noon and we
were Unapologetic about that because we
simply couldn't keep up with the
demands the other thing we had to think
about pretty fast were some of the
infrastructure elements that needed a
little investment on our side in times
of massive scale it's a really good
opportunity to get more opinionated
about your pipeline cuz you got a lot of
it coming in Now's the Time to get the
Baseline in place of how you're going to
measure it how you attribute it what
levers you have to pull around it
because when times settle and now you're
in run rate or maybe even lean months
you're going to want to know a lot more
about where that pipeline came from so
you can go recreate that
moment second major thing we invested in
in the most recent year were digital
moments we need our customers to to be
able to do everything themselves on
demand without human intervention you
can Brute Force these things in the
beginning right sure the sdrs can
complete that sure sales operations can
just create a few quick Salesforce cases
it doesn't work at scale and we started
to collapse a little bit under that
process and administrative technical
debt that we created over the
years
and finally we're really investing right
now in all things related to our seller
product acity so every little paper cut
we possibly can we're trying to reduce
every click every step that's extra or
unnecessary we're trying to eradicate it
and we are on a campaign this year to
make our sellers massively more
productive by reducing that paper
cut now when I talked about being
overwhelmed by the scale this was true
also with internal protheses and
experiences like support and so we
turned to co-pilot to help us actually
with our support case CU we experimented
here a little bit and actually ended up
implementing co-pilot as the front line
now across many of our support
surfaces based on the success that team
has realized we estimate that we're
deflecting about 60% of the tickets we
would have expected to be created across
our Support Services which is incredible
that's Savings of tons and tons of
manour and hires which means now our
support team can focus on more complex
problems higher order issues and we also
now have this wonderful Treasure Trove
of data to help enable our new support
hovers when they join us a couple other
experiments were running internally I
haven't
found any other examples yet that were
saying are winners we're definitely
tinkering in lots of places but our
co-pilot for support implementation has
been a
winner and then partner strategy I
mentioned this
briefly we arrived at the point where we
could no longer support the weight of
our own go to market that means both our
sales motions and our post sales
adoptions motions we needed access to
new channels in new GEOS and then we
needed those Partners to come behind us
and make sure our customers were
adopting the product and that their AR
was increasing year-over-year and so
we've made a lot of Investments here in
the most recent year it's something to
think about it's a tremendous investment
of time and energy from you and your
leaders and your teammates so you got to
wait until you have the capacity to do
it a couple of things we added in the
most recent year that have helped a lot
are more enablement sessions far more
trainings are now available to our
partners that we running both
synchronously and asynchronously we
needed to get our partners better access
to our product so now we have a much
more robust beta program our customers
get excuse me our partners get bisoke
road map sessions we just did a partner
kickoff this year for the first time so
we did our Revenue kickoff then we did
our partner kickoff for the year and we
released a certifications program and
this is really helping our partners
selfs serve that knowledge they need and
make sure that they're ready to talk to
customers there's been a lot going on
Mid scaling really fast there's been a
lot of noise we took a step back
probably a year ago and said gosh how do
we
help make sure we're driving signal
through all of this noise and change and
we double down on the fundamentals in a
very specific way we took all of our
goto Market motions and our
conversations across the company and
organized them through the lens of three
Revenue plays and if you ask any hubber
not just a revenue hubber any hubber our
three Revenue plays they're going to say
land secure accelerate land secure
accelerate because the revenue plays not
only became the basis for our enablement
and pmm
Road playbooks for example they also
became the core of our productor app
they became how Finance reports on the
business they became how we run our mbrs
and our qbrs how we measure our Pipeline
and it was very simple shift we made to
name these plays and to create Clarity
around them but I have been very
surprised at how the business has
reacted to that structure and how much
Clarity and transparency we've created
from end to end in the
business not rocket science but a simple
shift you can make to help make sure
that your teams are all
aligned I want to just hit on these
three points one more time before we
break I think we did a really good job
keeping customers at the center of our
journey scaling an AI product to
millions of
users and we did a really good job
pivoting based on their feedback because
we created this very functional feedback
loop between customer Revenue partner
engineering product
design we we then made sure we were very
Nimble in our go to market we adjusted
where we had to I think buffle up that's
not going to stop anytime soon and to do
that we had to make sure we had that
ethos in place and we had the right
people in seat to make that a
reality and then we've been frantically
investing in our scale engines to make
sure we're ready to get to the next
couple million users of co-pilot we sure
hope and all of this was wrapped in a
little bit of luck at being the right
product in the right Market at the right
time and so I wish you all that same bit
of luck on your Journeys thank you very
much